[OCPCLOUD-1517] API Conventions: Kube consistency is preferred to cloud consistency (#1214)
openshift/enhancements: dev-guide/api-conventions.md

This is invalid. Multiple structs have been configured and no discriminant is provided.

### Prefer consistency with Kubernetes style APIs

As both Kubernetes and OpenShift have a number of integrations with cloud and infrastructure platforms, there are a
number of different abstractions built into OpenShift that abstract and extend infrastructure capabilities.
For example, the Machine API or platform specific storage integrations within OpenShift.

These integrations often result in adding new API fields to OpenShift to allow users to configure various features of
the platform. Often, different platform's concepts are similar, but their naming of particular features can be specific
to their platform.
If we copy verbatim the API from a platform, this may or may not be compliant with OpenShift conventions and may or
may not make sense in a wider scope.

If we intend to support similar features across platforms, it is preferable to have similar APIs for these features

> within OpenShift rather than mimicking the upstream API. This has the benefit of providing consistency to users when

Reviewer: Here "upstream API" means the platform API?

Author: Yes it does, I'll swap

using OpenShift across multiple platforms and reducing the learning curve when installing OpenShift on a new platform.
Where possible, we should link to the platform specific documentation for features in the description of our own APIs.

While we appreciate that reusing the platform specific terminology can make it easier for someone familiar with the
platform to understand the API, we prefer to stick to Kubernetes style conventions (eg preferring PascalCase for
enumerated values) when abstracting platform specific APIs as this allows us to build a consistent looking API across
the OpenShift product.
Differences between our APIs and platform APIs can be handled within the controller backing the API.

> We have seen examples in the past where platform APIs are not intuitive to the value to the end user.

Reviewer: I'm having a little trouble parsing "not intuitive to the value to the end user". Is that the value of an API parameter or the benefit to the user of an API?

Author: Benefit is a better word for what I meant yes. Is this easier to understand if I switch `value to the end user` to `benefit for the end user`?

Reviewer: Is it that the platform API is not intuitive or that the benefit of the API is not intuitive?

How about this?

```suggestion
We have seen examples in the past where platform APIs are not intuitive to the end user.
```

Reviewer: Or maybe

```suggestion
We have seen examples in the past where the value of platform APIs is not intuitive to the end user.
```

When adhered to the conventions prevent us from making API design mistakes or repeating them.
As such, the existence of non-compliant APIs is not a justification for introducing additional non-compliant APIs.

### I'm copying an API from an upstream project or platform/cloud provider, can I change the design?

Yes! When designing an API for an abstraction, you should consider the end user experience and the value your
abstraction is providing. If you copy the API verbatim, are you adding any value?

If an upstream/platform API is not intuitive, we can improve the user experience by creating our own naming that better
describes the effects of enabling a specific field with a specific value. Think about why a user would configure a field
when choosing the name.

When writing APIs for OpenShift, we try to make our APIs consistent with one another and "Kube-like" so that users of

> OpenShift have an understanding of how to configure our APIs intuitively. If an upstream API is not consistent with

Reviewer 2: "configure APIs" looks a bit cryptic to me to be honest... Perhaps "interact with" or "use" would be more specific.
